>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now, those words
were just examples for a structural.
Now, let's see some behavioral design
patterns before actually applying
them, okay?
So some behavioral design patterns.
They deal with object interaction and
responsibility distribution.
So, in this case,
it's about object cooperation, okay?
Sometimes it's difficult to categorize
them because when you think about that,
is that behavioral,
is that creational, structural?
I think that creational is pretty clear.
Between structure and behavioral, it's not
so clear which one applies, but anyway.
Observer, and I'm 100% sure you
have already used this pattern.
The problem is to allow an object
known as the subject to notify other
objects known as the observers
about changes in its
state without requiring
them to be tightly coupled.
So solution,
the subject has a list of observers and
notifies them of any state change.
Why did I say that you
have already used this?
Every time you have used onclick or
addEventListener,
that's an observer implementation.
So in this case, you wanna listen for
changes in that object,
and that object doesn't know about you.
It doesn't know who you are.
You are just saying, hey, when you
have something to notify me, call me.
When there is a change in your state,
call me.
And the other part is just taking note of,
okay, I need to call you,
I need to call you, I need to call you,
and you will call your code.
Use cases, event handlers,
that's the most simple one.
Real-time notifications and UI updates.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: How does the observer
pattern differ, if at all,
from a pub/sub system?
Or is a pub/sub system
just a version of it?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Publish/subscribe,
pub/sub,
is just another name for observer.
So it's actually the same design pattern.
>> Speaker 2: Gotcha.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It has two names.
So it's publisher/subscriber, or
observer, it's just the same name, okay?
And we will apply an observer in
a couple of days minutes in our version.
But typically, it looks like this.
If you wanna create it in your code,
you have a class.
The class has a list of observers.
It can be an array.
I'm using a set here that is
not accepting duplicates.
That's the difference.
And you have addObserver, removeObserver.
It's like addEventListener,
removeEventListener from the DOM, okay?
And then notifyObservers that it's just
looping through all the observers and
just notify them, and that's all.
And then subjects will just
add themselves as observers or
add a function as an observer.
Again, addEventListener.
So if you have ever played
with addEventListener,
that's actually the observer
implemented in the DOM API, okay?
Makes sense?
Template method, the idea is to define
the skeleton of an algorithm that
will change on different implementation.
And, I mean,
the definition is not so clear.
But, actually,
if you have ever played with OOP and
polymorphism, we are just
talking about that, but
from a behavioral point of view.
So the idea is that data processing,
so I have some data,
I need to process the data, but
I don't know how, I don't care how.
Each implementation
will take care of that.
So the idea of abstract classes,
okay, is the way to go here.
But we don't have abstract
classes in JavaScript.
There is nothing similar
to an abstract class, so
we have to use some imagination
to actually get there.
Form validation is another use case for
this.
It typically looks like this.
Let's say we have a data processor,
and we know
that the data processor should load data,
process the data, and save data.
But at the class DataProcessor,
I don't add any code.
So if I execute that to over
a DataProcessor, it's not gonna work.
I will get an exception,
because loadData doesn't exist.
It's not a function.
But then, I have subclasses that
will implement those methods.
So then I'm forced to use
one of the subclasses.
And of course, we have several subclasses
with different implementations.
This is just OOP, okay, in action,
nothing really important.